Hi, I'm Taylor, and this is Iron, Sharpen's Iron.
Today, we're going to practice how to start a conversation that could lead to a witness.
Now, for many, this can be terrifying.
Why?
Well, as soon as we see someone that we'd like to talk to, we can start to think to ourselves,
what am I going to say?
How am I going to give a witness?
Or how are they going to react?
And we can become so overwhelmed with anxiety or nerves, thinking about how the conversation
will end that we never even start.
So here's something that we must keep in mind.
Our goal is simply to start a conversation.
So if we've started a conversation, we've succeeded.
We've reached our goal.
Then we can just relax and see if it leads to a witness.
The September 2018 life and ministry meeting workbook shows us how we can start a conversation
like Jesus did with the Samaritan woman in John chapter 4.
So when we see someone that we would like to talk to, we want to keep these three steps
in mind.
Number one, be friendly.
That's it.
Just be friendly.
So we can be nervous, so we can say quick prayer to Jehovah to give us courage, but then
we can give a friendly greeting.
Then we can mention something that's happening right then and there.
Maybe the weather, the long line at the grocery store, their nice car, or another genuine
compliment.
Jesus, when he started his conversation in verse 7 with the Samaritan woman, he simply
said, and no doubt in a friendly way, give me a drink.
Step two, let the conversation progress naturally.
Don't rush it.
If the conversation ends before we're able to give a witness, it's okay.
We accomplished our goal.
We started a conversation.
Now we're ready to try again.
Now, if the conversation continues on, then we can look for an opportunity to take step
three.
Make a simple expression of our faith.
One of verses after Jesus started the conversation with the Samaritan woman, then he witnessed
to her.
He said he had water that imparts everlasting life.
But between those two points, he didn't lecture her.
He let her talk and express herself and he listened to what she had to say.
So with those three steps in mind, now it's our turn.
It's our turn to practice starting a conversation that could lead to a witness.
Now tied in with us, we have Taís and Karolina who have joined us for a demonstration.
So where are you going to try to start your conversation today?
We are in a department store.
Yes, we are in a Portuguese congregation and it's common to hear people speak Portuguese
when they're now shopping.
Excellent.
So you've heard the three steps that we want to try.
At first, let's see what could happen if we rushed the conversation.
Okay.
Wait a little bit.
I heard you speak in Portuguese.
Where are you from?
Oi, I'm from Rio de Janeiro.
I'm from São Paulo.
How long have you been here?
Just three months.
It's so hard to just, isn't it?
You know, the Bible helped me so much when I moved here.
I don't want to keep you from your shopping, but you can read the Bible in Portuguese on
our website and it has articles I know you'll find comforting.
Okay, so time out.
Now, Tais, we know you rushed that on purpose.
But how did it make you feel when you did?
Yeah, it didn't feel right.
She started when it's so quickly and I thought she wasn't expecting it.
Right.
And Catalina, how about you?
How did it make you feel?
It started okay, but then got awkward real fast.
Right.
So now maybe you can show us what it's like when the conversation will progress more naturally.
Okay.
Oi, to the bang.
I heard just picking Portuguese.
Why are you from?
Oi, I'm from Rio de Janeiro.
Oh, nice.
I'm from São Paulo.
I recognize your accent.
I'm Tais.
I'm Catalina.
Nice to meet you.
Wow, how long have you been here?
Only three months.
Well, for me, it's been three years and the first was the hardest.
Yes, we finally have work, but we are still looking for a place to live.
And immigration has been harder than we thought.
Wow, I'm so sorry.
Do you have family with you?
My husband.
We had to live our son with my mother.
I miss him so much.
Wow, that's so hard.
But we have to keep trusting in God.
In my case is what got me through.
I know.
But I still worry when I don't know what he'll do for us.
Okay, so let's stop there.
Really nice, thank you.
So Tais, where do you feel the conversation is at at this point?
Yeah, I feel like I found a good time to say something about my faith.
And now she's seeing how she feels.
Nice, excellent.
And Catalina, how about you?
It was just a nice conversation.
So when she mentioned God was not awkward.
Thank you, sisters, for letting us learn from your conversation.
I found that helpful, and I hope you did too.
And make it your goal to start conversations with those three steps.
Be friendly, converse naturally, and find the right time to express your faith.
Practice at home, or with a friend, and see for yourself how iron sharpens iron.